In the last lecture we talked about where we store the files for our translations we know that there
are in resources long and then the language code and there are the BHP files which consist of a key
that has to be translated and a value which is the actual translation.
So now let's think where we'll store our custom messages for our application so we'll actually create
files form for them.
We can group them by naming those files differently.
So if you do not have much translation creating a file like messages BHP is enough.
This would just be a plain peach B file which will return an array.
So let's return an array.
And now let's take a look at our page.
So for a starter that simply translate this title.
So welcome to Lavell so let's create a first key let's call it welcome and then we create an English
version which is Welcome to lot of all and now let's think what how we will do that in Spanish.
So E as folder and we create the same exact file so messages BHP so they have to be named the same the
version of translations for our different language.
Now let's copy the contents of the original file.
So the key would be the same.
The key is the one you will use to translate.
So now the Spanish version is something like that.
I won't even try to read that.
I have no idea how to do that.
And now let's find our home template home blade BHP what you can see here is just a text inside the
blade template.
Welcome to LA Vo.
It's in English and now to actually translate this to a different language.
What you can do is well first we'll have to of course call something from Lara.
Also it's not that simple.
And now we have basically two possibilities to translate it.
So the first is to use our helper function which is to underscores and a key.
So now let's think how the key should be named.
So we have this file called messages.
So that's the first part of the key.
So messages remember that you will always have to use this as the same as the file is named is the first
part of the key and then inside it is the welcome.
So all of those are on the same level.
So that are the same level inside these messages file so you can use welcome messages welcome and that's
it.
So remember this helper function to underscores is how you will translate.
So that's a very basic example.
Now alternatively what you can also do is you can use the Lang directive here you will also pass messages.
Welcome.
So the key to be translated so it's depending on your choice how you feel better about using either
the directive or just echoing the text and then using this to underscores helper function.
I prefer to use that to underscore underscores myself and we'll use that throughout the rest of this
section.
OK.
Finally let's save the changes.
So first let's refresh the default version.
So now you can see immediately two titles.
So it seems that for English which is our default language it reads correctly that this key should be
translated to welcome to LARRY Oval but now to actually see that in Spanish.
Let's open that up BHP and just for a moment let's change the default language to Spanish.
So E S and now when you refresh the page you will see the text in Spanish.
So of course everything else is now still in English because we haven't translated it.
But notice that also this text when something has changed which is used by car bomb is immediately.
Well it's this carbon library for dates.
This actually picks up the language of your application.
And now this text is also in Spanish but everything else that we just echo as a plain text we do not
use translations is in English.
So now let's also see another example
so let's just call it example with value
and we might have something like Hello name.
So how do we put any variables any additional data that we would like to sum nicely put into that translation
and let's add the same for Spanish
I don't know how is it in Spanish probably Ola.
So let's try it out.
And now inside a paragraph let's verify if that works so underscore to underscores and messages the
key is an example with volume.
And now to pass those parameters you will are the second arguments to this call which would be an array
of arguments that has to match the names of those arguments that you have created here.
So we have a name here.
So we have to pass an array with an element that the key is the name and then some value.
So let's just put some something doesn't really matter what that would be.
So named John and this is how you pass some additional values.
So let's see.
So now the application is in Spanish so we can see all that John if we will change it back to English.
Now it is.
Hello John.
Now let's see another example.
And this would be a more complicated one.
So let's imagine we have a parameter that has that well you should show our singular or plural form
of the text depending on the volume.
So let's say no comments yet.
And then something like one comment two comments et cetera et cetera.
So plural let's create this key plural and then let's see how we should do that.
So this would be a little bit more complicated example.
So first we begin by specifying an exact value.
This is how you specify that for this exact value of the parameter we should display this text.
So exact value would be zero.
And this would be no comments yet.
And then you have to split somehow the different versions for a different value of the parameter.
And you do that using this character.
Now the next version would be for let's say a range.
So let's say when something is from one to two sorry one too.
So you put everything inside square brackets and for the value of the parameter that is from one up
to two you will want to display a text that is let's say comments now then you probably would also like
to say how many comments are there.
So by default you can use that using the count parameter because to actually display this measures you
will have to pass a parameter.
So this will be immediately available as with the name count so.
OK let's see this example now copy it first to the Spanish I don't know how is it in Spanish but let's
use no common Torrijos
something like this sorry for sorry the Spanish guys but well I just have no idea how is it in Spanish.
We are just doing an example.
Okay.
Now how would you call that in your line of old template.
So this is a little bit different.
Not very complicated just different.
Now we also have to echo this.
But instead of using double underscore you have to use trans choice.
So this is a helper function in light of all.
Now you will specify a key as usual.
So this is messages dot plural.
And now you specified the actual value so this would be zero.
So let's do one example with zero then an example with one and with to so we use this parameter.
So then it is being understood in this first segment.
So this is much exact zero.
And this is much exact one 2 up to two.
So say the changes.
And now let's refresh so you can see no comments yet.
This is for the 0 then 1 comments and 2 comments
now.
This is not perfect yet so well for in this example we probably would like to display something differently.
So we used a range here but actually this should also be one.
And then one comment.
But we can also add well many sets unlimited sets of these possibilities and well in most languages
you probably have a value or specific form of text for 0.
Then for one and then for everything plurality you will have the same form so to specify a range from
something up to infinity you will do it like that.
So this would mean from 2 up to infinity and this would be count comments.
Now let's also fixed a Spanish version so here we expect an exact value which is 1 so I hope this is
commentary or in Spanish.
I have no idea.
And then from 2 up to infinity count commentary is so we don't have to change the template just save
the changes.
And now let's see.
So you have no comments yet.
One comment and two comments if we will change it to Spanish This is also correct.
So no comment areas.
One commentary or two commentaries.
So those are the basics of how you would use ad translation helper methods and how to define them how
to parse values and how to use any plural forums now.
Additionally if you would also like to pass a value to those plural text like we have this trans choice
then of course you can do that
so you can call that parameter additional so for short.
Let's just use a
now do the same in Spanish
and just the same way as we did here.
We pass on array where the key has to match their parameter name that we specified inside messages BHP
so this was just an A and then some value whatever that might be let's say one doesn't really matter.
Let's copy it out to all of the examples.
Save the changes and you can see that the now message contains the parameters so whatever that might
be you might pass some email a name a number anything.
So those are the basics of how to basically translate the text using chlorophyll and by specifying the
messages in BHP file.